Technical Note:
Frame Internals
(Rev 2.3)

The fundamental element of motion sequence control is a twenty word
data block which is loaded into the controller called a frame. .
Frames generally fall into two categories Standard frames and Move/Add
frames.  Standard frames are used to change the trajectory control
parameters (Command Jerk, Acceleration, Velocity, and Position) at
pre-determined times in the motion sequence.  Standard Frames can also
be used to set hardware output states.  Move/Add frames are used to
change tuning parameters, add or move data in DSP memory and provide
special functions such as the control of other axes.

Standard Frames:

The following block shows the structure of a Standard Frame:

Frame Offset	Data Description
           0	Next Frame Pointer
           1	Control Word
           2	Time (low)
           3	Time (high)
           4	Jerk (low)
           5	Jerk (mid)
           6	Jerk (high)
           7	Acceleration (low)
           8	Acceleration (mid)
           9	Acceleration (high)
         10	Velocity (low)
         11	Velocity (mid)
         12	Velocity (high)
         13	Position (low)
         14	Position (mid-low)
         15	Position (mid-high)
         16	Position(high)
         17	Trigger/Update Mask
         18	Action Mask
         19	Output offset
Detailed Frame Structure Description

Word 0 -  Next Frame Pointer (16 bits)
Contains the address in DSP memory of the frame which should be loaded after the current frame.  This usually occurs after trigger conditions specified in the Trigger/Update Mask (word 17) have been met.

Word 1 - Control Bits (16 bits)
Contains bit fields which control the loading and releasing of frames
by the DSP controller.  The following are defined:

Bit	Definition
0-3	Frame Priority.		This 4-bit field determines if the new frame
				will be loaded or skipped

4-7	New Priority.		This 4-bit field sets the new operating state
				when (if) the frame is loaded.

8-11	Op Code.		Bit 8 is set for Add frames and bit 9 is set
				for Move frames.
12	Reserved

13	Hold Bit.		If this bit is set the frame will not be loaded
				while the axis has the Frame Hold Control bit
				set.

14	Interrupt.		If this bit is a 1 the PC will be interrupted
				when the frame is loaded.

15	Release.		If this bit is a 1 the frame will be released
				after it is loaded.  Normally all frames
				downloaded  by the PC should have this bit set.
				See the section on downloading frames for more
				information.

Words 2 & 3 - Time Trigger (32 bits)

These two words word contain the 32-bit Time Trigger value.  This
value is loaded into the Value section of the Trigger Control Block if
the Trigger field in the Trigger/Update Mask is set to FTRG_TIME.  See
the Tech. Note on Trigger Control for a description of the Trigger
Control Block.

Words 4, 5 & 6 - Command Jerk (48 bits)

If the FUPD_JERK bit is set in the Trigger/Update Mask a new Command
Jerk value will be loaded when the frame is loaded.

Words 7, 8 & 9 - Command Acceleration (48 bits)

If the FUPD_ACCEL bit is set in the Trigger/Update Mask a new Command
Acceleration value will be loaded when the frame is loaded.  If the
Trigger Field of the Trigger/Update mask is set to FTRG_ACCEL the
upper two words of this field will be loaded into the Trigger Control
block.

Words 10, 11 & 12 - Command Velocity (48 bits)

If the FUPD_VELOCITY bit is set in the Trigger/Update Mask a new
Command Velocity value will be loaded when the frame is loaded.  If
the Trigger Field of the Trigger/Update mask is set to FTRG_VELOCITY
the upper two words of this field will be loaded into the Trigger
Control block.

Words 13, 14, 15 & 16 - Command Position (64 bits)

If the FUPD_POSITION bit is set in the Trigger/Update Mask a new
Command Position value will be loaded when the frame is loaded. If the
FUPD_ACTUAL bit is set in the Trigger/Update Mask a new Actual
Position value will be loaded when the frame is loaded.  If the
Trigger Field of the Trigger/Update mask is set to FTRG_POSITION the
upper two words of this field will be loaded into the Trigger Control
block.

Word 17 - Trigger/Update Mask (16 bits)

This 16 bit word contain the bit fields which determine how the frame
data is loaded by the PC/DSP.  The following bit definitions are
contained in the Trigger/Update Mask:

Bit	Definition
0-7	Update Field
8-11	Trigger Offset
12-15	Trigger Type

The UPDATE control bits determine which variables are modified when
the frame is loaded.  For example if the FUPD_ACCEL bit is a 1 the
Command Acceleration will be copied from the frame when the frame is
loaded.  IF the FUPD_OUTPUT bit is set the OUTPUT OFFSET word will be
used to determine the location within the frame of the output data.

The TRIGGER control bits determine the conditions for initiation of
the event specified in the Action Mask.  The TRIGGER OFFSET is used to
determine the location of the trigger data within the frame.  The
TRIGGER TYPE is used to determine the type of trigger:

Trigger	Offset	Type
Time	2	1
Acceleration	8	2
Velocity	11	2
Position	15	2
Input (data is in TIME field)	2	0
Input (data is in JERK field)	4	0
Input (data is in ACCEL field)	7	0
Input (data is in VEL field)	10	0
Input (data is in POS field)	13	0

Word 18 - Action Mask (16 bits)

This 16 bit word determines what action is taken when a trigger
condition has been met.  The following bit definitions exist for the
Action Mask:

Bit	Definition
0-3	Action Request
4-14	Unused
15	Comparison Sense

The ACTION REQUEST field determines the next state of the PC/DSP when
the trigger conditions have been met. See the Tech Note on States and
Events for a description of the action values.  The Comparison sense
bit is used to determine if the direction for comparison of in trigger
generation.  See the Tech Note on Trigger Control for details.

Bit 15 (Comparison Sense)	Trigger occurs when
                0	Control Value > Trigger Value
                1	Control Value <= Trigger Value

Word 19 - Output Offset (16 bits)

This word contains the Offset within the frame for the 3 word output
control data.  When the FUPD_OUTPUT bit is set in the Trigger/Update
Mask the controller uses the output control block to change the output
data. The three word block has the structure,

Word	Value
0	Output Address
1	OR Mask
2	AND Mask

The 16 bit word at the specified Output Address is first ORed with
the OR Mask then ANDed with the AND Mask.

Move and Add Frames:
Move and Add Frames have the following Format

Frame Offset	Data Description
           0	Next Frame Pointer
           1	Control Word
           2	Length
           3	Destination Address
           4	Source 1 Address
           5	Source 2 Address
           6	Unused
           7	Unused
           8	Unused
           9	Unused
         10	Unused
         11	Unused
         12	Unused
         13	Unused
         14	Unused
         15	Unused
         16	Unused
         17	Unused
         18	Unused
         19	Unused

The first two words of a Move or Add frame are used in exactly the
same way as for standard frames.  For a Move Frame (FCTL_MOVE set in
the control word) the data is copied from Source 1 to Destination for
the specified length.  For Add Frames the data from Source 1 and
Source 2 are added and the sum is copied to Destination.  The Trigger
Control Block is cleared when a Move or Add Frame is loaded.

Frame Loading Control.

There are two types of lists that are used to track the location of
frames in the DSP controller.  The Free List keeps track of frames
which are currently not in use.  The Axis Lists (one per axis) keeps
track of the frames waiting to be loaded during motion sequences.  The
Host removes frames from the Free List and puts them in the
appropriate Axis List.  The DSP then loads the frames in the Axis list
as the motion sequence executes.  Once a frame has been loaded by the
controller it is released back to the Free List by the DSP.  The last
frame in the list is never removed from the list.  It is used as a
place holder to maintain a pointer to the next frame in the list.  A
list is considered empty when it has only one frame left.

The normal sequence of events in frame usage is as follows:

1) The address of the next free frame is read from the Free list
pointer in the DSP.  If there is a frame available (i. e. the frame
has a valid pointer to another frame) the Host modifies the Free list
pointer to point to the next available frame in the list.  At this
point the frame is in limbo since no pointer in the DSP refers
to it.

2) The Host usually clears the frame and then fills in the appropriate
fields within the frame.  If this is the first frame in a series the
FCTL_HOLD bit is usually set in the Frame Control Word and a call to
set_gate is made before the frame is downloaded.  This prevents the
frame from being loaded by the controller before all of the frames in
the series have been downloaded.

3) Once the fields in the frame have been filled in the Next Frame
Pointer for the last frame in the Axis List is set to point to this
new frame.  At this point the frame is no longer in limbo since now
the controller has it in one of its lists.

4) The next frames in a series are removed from the free list
(allocated), filled in, and linked to the last frame in the Axis List
(downloaded) using the above three steps.

5) A call to reset_gate is made to start execution of the motion
sequence.  The first frame is usually loaded immediately when the gate
is reset.  Subsequent frames are each loaded when the Trigger
conditions for the preceding frame are met.  When a frame loaded the
FCTL_RELEASE bit is checked in the Frame Control word and, if set, the
frame is removed from the Axis List and returned to the Free List.

6) The last frame in the Axis is not released to the Free List.  It
remains as a place holder for linking in new frames.  It is released
as soon as a new frame is loaded.

Once a series of frames has been downloaded there the sequence may be
altered by events such as Stop, E-Stop or Abort Events.  If the Frame
Priority value in the Frame Control Word is lower than the Current
Operating State the frame will not be loaded but will be skipped and
released.  In this way a frame sequence where the frames are all at
low priority (normally 2 or lower) the frames will be released if a
Stop or E-Stop event occurs.

Motion Engineering, Inc. -- Company Confidential
