Technical Note:
Motion Controller States and Events

Each axis on DSP Controllers has 16 internal states that are used to
control motion sequences.  The following table the state values:

0	Poser-Up/ Reset/ Controller Run
1	Normal Operation
2	New Frame
3	User Defined
4	User Defined
5	User Defined
6	Out-of Frames
7	Reserved
8	Stop
9	Reserved
10	E-Stop
11	Reserved
12	Reserved
13	Reserved
14	Abort/Idle
15	Reserved

Transitions between states are caused by events.  Events can come from
three sources: Internal Checks, Host Generated events, and Frame
Generated events.  When an event occurs a value is loaded into the
Axis Source register which indicates the cause of the event. The
following list shows all of the Internal Checks which produce events:

Hardware Limits:
Limit		    Factory Default Event  Axis Source Value   Conditions
Amp Fault	    Abort		   4	       None
Positive Overtravel E-Stop		   3	       IN_MOTION & !DIRECTION
Negative Overtravel E-Stop		   2	       IN_MOTION & DIRECTION
Home		    Stop		   1	       None

Software Limits:
Limit		    Factory Default Event  Axis Source Value   Conditions
Positive SW Limit   E-Stop		   8	       IN_MOTION & !DIRECTION
Negative SW Limit   E-Stop		   7	       IN_MOTION & DIRECTION
Error		    Abort		   9	       None

Misc.:
Event		    Factory Default Event  Axis Source Value   Conditions
Out of Frames	    E-Stop		   11	       None
Temposonics Probe Fault	Abort (Fixed)	   12	       None

Internal Check events can only increase the controller state value.
For example a Stop event will not affect the controller if the
controller is in the E-Stop state.  An Abort event will, however,
preempt an E-Stop event in progress.

Host Generated events are set by loading the new event value into the
PC-Event register for the axis in question.  If the PC_STATUS_OVERRIDE
bit is set in the Event register the event will take place
unconditionally.  If the PC_STATUS_OVERRIDE bit is clear the event can
only increase the controller state value in the same way that Internal
Checks change the state value.  Host Generated events are processed in
the first sample interval which follows the setting of the event
register.

Frame Generated Events are of two types.  The Trigger Control Block is
loaded using information in the Trigger/Update Mask word.  This sets
up a Trigger Event which happens at a later time.  See the Tech Note
on Trigger Events for a description of the Trigger Control Block and
Trigger Event generation. The second Frame Generated Event occurs when
a Frame is loaded and the operating state is set to the value of the
New Priority field in the Frame Control Word unless the New Priority
is zero.  This is not strictly an event since only the operating state
is changed and no action (Stop, E-Stop, etc.) is taken.

If several events occur in the same axis only the highest state value
will be loaded.  If several events for the same final state occur the
Source Value will be set in the following priority

Temposonics Probe
Amp Fault
Home
Hardware Position Limits
Software Position Limits
Error Limit
Trigger Events
Host Generated Events

Motion Engineering, Inc. -- Company Confidential
